Analysis
========
Through the search process based on the VIB architecture on this exploration platform, the final optimal architecture achieves an 11.58% delay improvement, a 20.06% area improvement, and a 29.32% area-delay product improvement compared to the baseline architecture.

Based on the distribution of various wire types in the top 10 optimal architectures, it can be seen that the best performance is achieved when the number of length-1 and length-2 wires are 10 and 12, respectively. This trend remains consistent across these 10 architectures. Length-3 and length-5 wires are generally used less frequently than other wires; the performance is better when the number of length-4 wires is around 24, and when the number of length-8 wires is 32. For other longer wire types, such as length-10 and length-12 wires, the numbers are typically 20 and 24, respectively. Whether both types are present, or only one, or no long wires at all, the performance varies across different architectures.

Through the detailed data statistics for each circuit implemented on the optimal architecture, it can be observed that the routing area improvement is the same for all benchmarks. This is because the architecture is a fixed 50*50 layout, and the routing area remains constant when the same architecture is used to implement different circuits. By observing the delay improvements of different circuits, it can be seen that some circuits experience negative optimization, such as cordic_tanh, Murax, and zipcore. These circuits are larger in scale compared to others. it is likely that the optimization of routing area reduces the width of the routing channels and the number of MUXes in each tile. As a result, some paths in larger circuits required additional detours for successful routing, which leads to the deterioration of the critical path delay for these circuits. However, for other small circuits, the two level MUX topology shrinks the size of each MUX, which leads to less critical path delay to a large extent. Therefore, for the overall benchmark, the architecture obtained through the exploration shows significant optimization in delay compared to the baseline.
